SAMPSON GREGORY SAMPSON GREGORY
collar. SAMPSON GREGORY SAMPSON GREGORY
Gregory, on my word we’ll not carry coals. No, for then we should be colliers.
I mean, an we be in choler, we’ll draw.
Ay, while you live, draw your neck out of
I strike quickly, being moved.
But thou art not quickly moved to strike.
A dog of the house of Montague moves me. To move is to stir, and to be valiant is to
5
stand. Therefore if thou art moved thou runn’st 10
away.
SAMPSON A dog of that house shall move me to stand. I
will take the wall of any man or maid of Montague’s. GREGORY That shows thee a weak slave, for the weakest
goes to the wall. 15 SAMPSON ’Tis true, and therefore women, being the
weaker vessels, are ever thrust to the wall. Therefore I will push Montague’s men from the wall and
thrust his maids to the wall.
GREGORY The quarrel is between our masters and us 20 their men.
SAMPSON ’Tis all one. I will show myself a tyrant. When I have fought with the men, I will be civil with the maids; I will cut off their heads.
GREGORY The heads of the maids? 25 SAMPSON Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads.
Take it in what sense thou wilt.
They must take it   in   sense that feel it.
GREGORY
SAMPSON Me they shall feel while I am able to stand,
and ’tis known I am a pretty piece of flesh. 30 GREGORY ’Tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst, thou
hadst been poor-john. Draw thy tool. Here comes of the house of Montagues.
 Enter   Abram with another Servingman.
My naked weapon is out. Quarrel, I will back
How? Turn thy back and run?
Fear me not.
No, marry. I fear thee!
Let us take the law of our sides; let them
I will frown as I pass by, and let them take it as they list.
SAMPSON Nay, as they dare. I will bite my thumb at them, which is disgrace to them if they bear it.
SAMPSON thee.
GREGORY SAMPSON GREGORY SAMPSON
35
40
begin. GREGORY
  ABRAM SAMPSON ABRAM SAMPSON,
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir? 45 I do bite my thumb, sir.
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
aside to Gregory Is the law of our side if I
He bites his thumb.
  say “Ay”?
GREGORY, aside to Sampson No. 50 SAMPSON No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir,
but I bite my thumb, sir.
Do you quarrel, sir? Quarrel, sir? No, sir.
But if you do, sir, I am for you. I serve as 55 good a man as you.
ABRAM No better.
Well, sir.
Enter Benvolio.
GREGORY,   aside to Sampson Say “better”; here comes
one of my master’s kinsmen. 60
Yes, better, sir. You lie.
Draw if you be men.—Gregory, remember
thy washing blow. They fight.
BENVOLIO Part, fools! Drawing his sword. 65 Put up your swords. You know not what you do.
Enter Tybalt,   drawing his sword.
TYBALT
What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds? Turn thee, Benvolio; look upon thy death.
BENVOLIO
I do but keep the peace. Put up thy sword,
Or manage it to part these men with me. 70
TYBALT
What, drawn and talk of peace? I hate the word
As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee.
Have at thee, coward! They fight.
Enter three or four Citizens with clubs or partisans.
CITIZENS
Clubs, bills, and partisans! Strike! Beat them down!
Down with the Capulets! Down with the Montagues! 75
Enter old Capulet in his gown, and his Wife.
CAPULET
What noise is this? Give me my long sword, ho!
LADY CAPULET
A crutch, a crutch! Why call you for a
sword?
CAPULET
My sword, I say. Old Montague is come
And flourishes his blade in spite of me. 80
MONTAGUE
Thou villain Capulet!—Hold me not; let me go.
LADY MONTAGUE
Thou shalt not stir one foot to seek a foe.
Enter Prince Escalus with his train.
PRINCE
Rebellious subjects, enemies to peace,
Profaners of this neighbor-stainèd steel—
Will they not hear?—What ho! You men, you beasts, 85 That quench the fire of your pernicious rage
With purple fountains issuing from your veins:
On pain of torture, from those bloody hands
Throw your mistempered weapons to the ground,
And hear the sentence of your movèd prince. 90 Three civil brawls bred of an airy word
By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
Have thrice disturbed the quiet of our streets
And made Verona’s ancient citizens
Cast by their grave-beseeming ornaments 95 To wield old partisans in hands as old,
Cankered with peace, to part your cankered hate.
If ever you disturb our streets again,
Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
For this time all the rest depart away. 100 You, Capulet, shall go along with me,
And, Montague, come you this afternoon
To know our farther pleasure in this case,
To old Free-town, our common judgment-place.
Once more, on pain of death, all men depart. 105
All but Montague, Lady Montague, and Benvolio   exit.